the experience of the absolute primitive prototype. my viewer shall begin with rectangles and lines. each rectangle is 1 object. lines connect them. now i need to create the base primitives. which is click for the object to expand(basically the object can expand into multiple slices arranged in z direction.for example a pdf/book is usually opened and scrolled in y direction, here a book when clicked opens in z dir, for videos each meaningful timestamp that triggers a different object becomes like the page of a book, a frame seperate from the video, appearing in a z layer below or above the playing video object. for images i was thinkng of using sam2 for segmenting images of its different objects to connect em to other objects, beautiful and very useful, but off the table rn. and soo much more could be done like this!!!) the user can move in x/y/z. the second thing are the lines, connected to each other(the sublayered objectswill not be connected to the parent object). clicking on a thread closes folds in all the things following the line and following it. then we have the map. at the top left of the screen. also rope is a feature inside the map. tbh i think it is confusing for you. so forget rope. 
now this map shows all the nodes/objects(all connections in sub objects are shown to be of the main object). the path of the map that is travelled in green. for every detour taken(basically all paths that was explored then backtracked to follow something else). now you can click the nodes that are shown on the map to go to them(only visited objects are visible in the map). to go back to the main content. the map's outer border is thick for a certain length and it moves around the rim of the map to point towards the direction of home in the compass. you click that thick part. to go back home. 
now if you click on an object, it triggers other objects. for prototype. if you click a rectangle, another rectangle connected to it will flash a different colour.
to collapse an object. click outside of its hitbox. it closes the object at the outermost node. for books, you have to do it twice to prevent accidental closing of books.